docs: how to install go (#1382)
tendermint/starport: docs/intro/go.md

---
order: 2
description: Install the Go programming language
---

# Install Go

> In this tutorial, you will install the Go programming language (golang) on your local computer. Follow the instructions for your operating system:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will install the Go programming language (Golang) on your local computer. Follow the instructions for your operating system:
```

## macOS

* Download the latest MacOS installer package from <https://golang.org/dl/>.
* Open the downloaded package and follow the prompts through to completion.
* By default, the package installs the Go distribution to `/usr/local/go`, however it is always best to define the path explicitly:

>     1. Open or create a `~/.bash_profile` file with your favorite command-line text editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

This might be different for everyone depending on the shell you're using.

Author: @ilgooz what about using `~/.bash_profile` / `~/.profile`?

Author: @ilgooz what about using `~/.profile`?

Author: Bdw, Isn't `~/.bash_profile` is available by default? :)

Reviewer: yes, we can do the .profile way but we should also document that it needs to be sourced.

no, bash profile isn't available for different shells by default.

    2. Add the following lines:

        ```sh

>         export GOPATH=$HOME/go

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

go path is no longer required.

Reviewer 2: It might be useful if you run `starport c build` and then want to use the chain's binary.

Reviewer: In which, we should use `export PATH=$PATH:$(go env GOPATH)/bin`.

        export PATH=$PATH:$GOPATH/bin
        ```

    3. To make sure these changes execute, run the following command:

        ```sh
        source ~/.bash_profile
        ```

* Verify the installation of go by checking its version:

    ```sh
    go version
    ```

## Linux

* Download the latest Linux distribution package from <https://golang.org/dl/>.
* Extract the archive you downloaded into `/usr/local` using the following command:

```sh

> sudo tar -C /usr/local -xzf go1.16.6.linux-amd64.tar.gz

Reviewer: I think we shouldn't refer to a spesific version as it always change.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
sudo tar -C /usr/local -xzf gox.xx.x.linux-amd64.tar.gz
```

```

* To add Go to your `.bash_profile` file:

    1. Open `.bash_profile` file using:

        ```sh

>         nano ~/.bash_profile

Reviewer: nano may not be available in all environments. instead we can recommend people to just use whatever editor they have.

        ```

    2. Add the following lines in your `.bash_profile` file:

        ```sh
        export GOPATH=$HOME/go
        export PATH=$PATH:$GOPATH/bin:/usr/local/go/bin
        ```

* To make sure the above changes are applied, run the following command:

```sh
source ~/.bash_profile
```

* Verify the installation of go using:

```sh
go version
```

## Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)

* Download the latest Linux distribution package from <https://golang.org/dl/>.
* Extract the archive you downloaded and move into the `/usr/local` directory by running:

```sh
sudo tar -xvf go1.16.6.linux-amd64.tar.gz && sudo mv go /usr/local
```

* To add Go to your `.bash_profile` file:

    1. Open `.bash_profile` profile using:

        ```sh
        nano ~/.bash_profile
        ```

    2. Add the following lines in your `.bash_profile` profile:

        ```sh

>         export GOROOT=/usr/local/go

Reviewer: Go root shouldn't be required, is it something spesific to make it work for WSL?

Author: good catch, removed!

---
order: 2

> description: Run Starport CLI using a Docker container.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Install the Go programming language
```

---

# Install Go

> In this tutorial, you will install golang on your local computer. Follow the instructions for your operating system:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will install the Go programming language (golang) on your local computer. Follow the instructions for your operating system:
```

> ## Mac OS X

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## macOS
```

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MacOS

* Download the latest MacOS installer package from <https://golang.org/dl/>.
* Open the downloaded package and follow the prompts through to completion.
* By default, the package installs the Go distribution to `/usr/local/go`, however it is always best to define the path explicitly:

    1. Open or create a `~/.bash_profile` file with your favorite command-line text editor.
    2. Add the following lines:

        ```sh
        export GOPATH=$HOME/go
        export PATH=$PATH:$GOPATH/bin
        ```

    3. To make sure these changes execute, run the following command:

        ```sh
        source ~/.bash_profile
        ```

* Verify the installation of go by checking its version:

    ```sh
    go version
    ```

## Linux

> * Download the latest linux distribution package from <https://golang.org/dl/>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Download the latest Linux distribution package from <https://golang.org/dl/>.
```

* Extract the archive you downloaded into `/usr/local` using the following command:

```sh
sudo tar -C /usr/local -xzf go1.16.6.linux-amd64.tar.gz
```

* To add Go to your `.bash_profile` file:

    1. Open `.bash_profile` file using:

        ```sh
        nano ~/.bash_profile
        ```

    2. Add the following lines in your `.bash_profile` file:

        ```sh
        export GOPATH=$HOME/go
        export PATH=$PATH:$GOPATH/bin:/usr/local/go/bin
        ```

> * To make sure the above changes execute, run the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* To make sure the above changes are applied, run the following command:
```

```sh
source ~/.bash_profile
```

* Verify the installation of go using:

```sh
go version
```

> ## Windows

Reviewer 2: We don't support Windows, so perhaps we should replace this section with installing Go on Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL).

---
order: 2
description: Install the Go programming language
---

# Install Go

In this tutorial, you will install the Go programming language (Golang) on your local computer. Follow the instructions for your operating system:

## macOS

> * Download the latest MacOS installer package from <https://golang.org/dl/>.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Download the latest macOS installer package from [Go downloads](https://golang.org/dl/).
```

Reviewer 3: I was curious, so I verified "macOS" from https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201260 and a few other Mac doc peeks. 
I know that URLs and URLs in angle brackets will automatically get turned into links. However, our style is to use link text, so let's follow the Google developer documentation style guidance to use [descriptive link text](https://developers.google.com/style/link-text).

> * Open the downloaded package and follow the prompts through to completion.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Open the downloaded package and follow the prompts to install Go.
```

Reviewer 3: hmmm the "through to completion" doesn't feel right, grammar-wise.

> * By default, the package installs the Go distribution to `/usr/local/go`, however it is always best to define the path explicitly:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* By default, the package installs the Go distribution to `/usr/local/go`. However, it is always best to define the PATH explicitly:
```

Reviewer 3: do we mean "PATH" here? if so, wdyt about using the all capital PATH?

    1. Open or create a `~/.profile` file with your favorite command-line text editor.

>     2. Add the following lines:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    2. Add the following line:
```

        ```sh

>         export PATH=$PATH:$(go env GOPATH)/bin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        export PATH=$PATH:$(go env GOPATH):/usr/local/go/bin
```

        ```

>     3. To make sure these changes are applied, run the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    3. To make sure these changes are applied to `~/.profile`, run the following command:
```

        ```sh
        source ~/.profile
        ```

> * Verify the installation of go by checking its version:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Verify that you have installed Go by checking running the following command to check the version:
```

Reviewer 3: it's so tempting to use possessive "its" so I usually try to rephrase a sentence to avoid

    ```sh
    go version
    ```

## Linux

> * Download the latest Linux distribution package from <https://golang.org/dl/>.

Reviewer 3: same link change as above please :) use descriptive link text

* Extract the archive you downloaded into `/usr/local` using the following command:

```sh
sudo tar -C /usr/local -xzf go1.16.6.linux-amd64.tar.gz
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, to install version 1.16.6:

```sh
sudo tar -C /usr/local -xzf go1.16.6.linux-amd64.tar.gz
```

```

> **Note - Make sure to install the latest version available at that time.**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Note:** Make sure to install the latest supported version.
```

Reviewer 3: I'm so glad to see this Note, I've updated our technical style guidance on Notion to include this standard. At Tendermint, we bold only the word "Note" and then use plain text for the rest of the sentence, per https://developers.google.com/style/notices

* To add Go to your `.profile` file:

    1. Open `~/.profile` file with your favorite command-line text editor and add the following line.

        ```sh

>         export PATH=$PATH:$GOPATH/bin:/usr/local/go/bin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        export PATH=$PATH:$(go env GOPATH):/usr/local/go/bin
```

        ```

> * To make sure the above changes are applied, run the following command:

Reviewer 3: let's not use "above" per https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/a/above (any positional phrases are difficult for various reasons, accessibility is primary) 

see earlier comments and make similar changes here

```sh
source ~/.profile
```

> * Verify the installation of go using:

Reviewer 3: suggest applying the same suggested changes from https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/a/above

```sh
go version
```

## Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)

* Download the latest Linux distribution package from <https://golang.org/dl/>.
* Extract the archive you downloaded and move into the `/usr/local` directory by running:

```sh
sudo tar -xvf go1.16.6.linux-amd64.tar.gz && sudo mv go /usr/local
```

**Note - Make sure to install the latest version available at that time.**

* To add Go to your `.profile` file:

    1. Open `~/.profile` file with your favorite command-line text editor and add the following line.

        ```sh

>         export PATH=$GOPATH/bin:$PATH

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        export PATH=$PATH:$(go env GOPATH)/bin
```

        ```

* To make sure the above changes are applied, run the following command:

```sh

> ~/.profile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
source ~/.profile
```

---

# Install Go

In this tutorial, you will install the Go programming language (Golang) on your local computer. Follow the instructions for your operating system:

## macOS

* Download the latest MacOS installer package from <https://golang.org/dl/>.
* Open the downloaded package and follow the prompts through to completion.
* By default, the package installs the Go distribution to `/usr/local/go`, however it is always best to define the path explicitly:

    1. Open or create a `~/.profile` file with your favorite command-line text editor.
    2. Add the following lines:

        ```sh
        export PATH=$PATH:$(go env GOPATH)/bin
        ```

    3. To make sure these changes execute, run the following command:

        ```sh
        source ~/.profile
        ```

* Verify the installation of go by checking its version:

    ```sh
    go version
    ```

## Linux

* Download the latest Linux distribution package from <https://golang.org/dl/>.
* Extract the archive you downloaded into `/usr/local` using the following command:

```sh
sudo tar -C /usr/local -xzf go1.16.6.linux-amd64.tar.gz
```

**Note - Make sure to install the latest version available at that time.**

> * To add Go to your `.bash_profile` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To add Go to your `.profile` file:
```

>     1. Open `~/.profile` file with your favorite command-line text editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Open `~/.profile` file with your favorite command-line text editor and add the following line.
```

>     2. Add the following lines in your `.bash_profile` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

        ```sh
        export PATH=$PATH:$GOPATH/bin:/usr/local/go/bin
        ```

* To make sure the above changes are applied, run the following command:

```sh
source ~/.profile
```

* Verify the installation of go using:

```sh
go version
```

## Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)

* Download the latest Linux distribution package from <https://golang.org/dl/>.
* Extract the archive you downloaded and move into the `/usr/local` directory by running:

```sh
sudo tar -xvf go1.16.6.linux-amd64.tar.gz && sudo mv go /usr/local
```

**Note - Make sure to install the latest version available at that time.**

* To add Go to your `.bash_profile` file:

    1. Open `~/.profile` file with your favorite command-line text editor.

>     2. Add the following lines in your `.bash_profile` profile:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

        ```sh

>         export GOPATH=$HOME/go

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>         export PATH=$GOPATH/bin:$GOROOT/bin:$PATH

Reviewer: We don't need a go root here
